# Notes

## Intro

   Hello everyone I'm Ryan Busby.
   Today we're I'll be talking about **hacking**.
   This is often how hacking is portayed.
   In reality it's using an exploit or a tool.
   I'll begin with a story of discovering a vulnerability.

## Specific vulnerability backstory

   I was playing Sid Myer's Civilization. (slide) CIV is a game where you play as a world leader through the ages. In CIV there are diplomacy, military, policies and actions.

   Here's a few actions to give you an idea: (slide)

   One day I was against Mahatma Ghandi. I used the diplimacy action. It's an action that lowers the threat and thought everything was peachy.(slide)

   The next turn Ghandi has unallied me, declared war, and started to research nukes all in one swoop.
   What gives? Ghandi is a man of peace.

   A few turns later he fires a nuke at one of my cities then casually asks for peace and to be allies.
   Somethings not right. (slide)

## Buffer overflow

   In CIV threat is assigned a value between 0 - 255.
   In reflection of Ghandis peacefullness his value is 1.

   What happens when you subtract 2 from threat? From say a diplomacy action...

   It doesn't go to -1 in a buffer overflow it will loop to the max value in this case 255 (slide)

   Causing the most agression possible.

   Attacking Ghandi at 255 increases his agression so it overflows to a low threat number.

## Closing

  The bug was fixed in a later release and suprisingly became a feature request from fans.
  I hope you enjoyed learning about buffer overflows, CIV, and Ghandi.
  If you have any questions come see me. Thank you for your time.





